these are some photos of me volunteering
in a Cambodian orphanage in 2006 when
these photos were taken I thought I was
doing a really good thing and then I was
really helping those kids I had a lot to
learn it all started for me when I was
19 years old and went backpacking
through Southeast Asia
when I reached Cambodia I felt
uncomfortable being on holiday
surrounded by so much poverty and wanted
to do something to give back so I
visited some orphanages and donated some
clothes and books and some money to help
the kids that I'm n but one of the
orphanages I visited was desperately
poor
I had never encountered poverty like
that before in my life they didn't have
funds for enough food clean water or
medical treatment and the sound little
faces on those kids was heartbreaking so
I was compelled to do something more to
help I fundraised in Australia and
returned to Cambodia the following year
to volunteer at the orphanage for a few
months I taught English and bought water
filters and food and took all of the
kids to the dentist for the first time
in their lives but over the course of
the next year I came to discover that
this orphanage that I've been supporting
was terribly corrupt the director had
been embezzling every cent donated to
the orphanage and in my absence the
children were suffering such gross
neglect that they were forced to catch
mice to feed themselves I also found out
later that the director had been
physically and sexually abusing the kids
I couldn't bring myself to turn my back
on children who I had come to know and
care about and returned to my life in
Australia so I work with a local team
and the local authorities to set up a
new orphanage and rescue the kids to
give them a safe
new home but this is where my story
takes another unexpected turn as I
adjusted to my new life running an
orphanage in Cambodia
Kim barbarian me ape snack my room which
means that I learned to speak the Khmer
language fluently and when I could
communicate properly with the kids I
began to uncover some strange things
most of the children that we had removed
from the orphanage were not in fact
orphans at all they had parents and the
few that were orphaned had other living
relatives like grandparents and auntie's
and uncles and other siblings so why
were these children living in an
orphanage when they weren't orphans
since 2005 the number of orphanages in
Cambodia has risen by seventy five
percent and the number of children
living in Cambodian orphanages has
nearly doubled despite the fact that the
vast majority of children living in
these orphanages are not orphans in the
traditional sense they're children from
poor families so if the vast majority of
children living in orphanages are not
orphans then the term orphanage is
really just a euphemistic name for a
residential care institution these
institutions go by other names as well
like the shelter's safe houses
children's homes children's villages
even boarding schools and this problem
is not just confined to Cambodia this
map shows some of the countries that
have seen a dramatic increase in the
numbers of residential care institutions
and the numbers of children being
institutionalized in Uganda for example
the number of children living in
institutions has increased by more than
1,600 percent since 1992 and the
problems posed by putting kids into
institutions
don't just pertain to the corrupt and
abusive institutions like the one that I
rescued the kids from the problems are
with all forms of residential care over
sixty years of international research
has shown us the children who grow up in
institutions even the very best
institutions are at serious risk of
developing mental illnesses attachment
disorders growth and speech delays and
many will struggle with an inability to
reintegrate back into society later in
life and form healthy relationships as
adults these kids grow up without any
model of family or of what good
parenting looks like so they then can
struggle to parents their own children
so if you institutionalize large numbers
of children it will affect not only this
generation but also the generations to
come we've learned these lessons before
in Australia it's what happened to our
stolen generations the indigenous
children who were removed from their
families with the belief that we could
do a better job of raising their
children just imagine for a moment what
residential care would be like for a
child firstly you have a constant
rotation of caregivers with somebody new
coming onto the shift every eight hours
and then on top of that you have a
steady stream of visitors and volunteers
coming in showering you in the love and
affection you're craving and then
leaving again evoking all of those
feelings of abandonment and proving
again and again that you are not worthy
of being loved
we don't have orphanages in Australia
the USA the UK anymore and for a very
good reason one study is showing that
young adults raised in institutions are
10 times more likely to fall into sex
work than their peers 40 times more
likely to have a criminal record
and 500 times more likely to take their
own lives there are an estimated 8
million children around the world living
in institutions like orphanages despite
the fact that around 80% of them are not
orphans most have families who could be
caring for them if they had the right
support but for me the most shocking
thing of all to realize is what's
contributing to this boom in the
unnecessary institutionalization of so
many children it's us the tourists the
volunteers and the donors it's the
well-meaning support from people like me
back in 2006 who visit these children
and volunteer and donate who are
unwittingly fueling an industry that
exploits children and tears families
apart
it's really no coincidence that these
institutions are largely set up in areas
where tourists can most easily be lured
in to visit and volunteer in exchange
for donations of the 600 so-called
orphanages in Nepal over 90% of them are
located in the most popular tourist
hotspots the cold hard truth is the more
money that floods in in support of these
institutions the more institutions open
and the more children are removed from
their families to fill their beds it's
just the laws of supply and demand I had
to learn all of these lessons the hard
way after I had already set up an
orphanage in Cambodia I had to eat a big
piece of humble pie to admit then I had
made a mistake and inadvertently become
a part of the problem I had been an
orphanage tourist
a voluntarist I then set up my own
orphanage and facilitated orphanage
tourism in order to generate funds for
my orphanage before I knew better what I
came to learn is that no matter how good
my orphanage was it was never going to
give those kids what they really needed
their families I know that it can feel
incredibly depressing to learn that
helping vulnerable children and
overcoming poverty is not as simple as
we've all been led to believe it should
be but thankfully there is a solution
these problems are reversible and
preventable and when we know better we
can do better the organization that I
run today the Cambodian children's trust
is no longer an orphanage in 2012 we
changed the model in favour of family
based care I now lead an amazing team of
Cambodian social workers nurses and
teachers together we work within
communities to untangle a complex web of
social issues and help Cambodian
families escape poverty our primary
focus is on preventing some of the most
vulnerable families in our community
from being separated in the first place
but in cases where it's not possible for
a child to live with its biological
family we support them in foster care
family based care is always better than
placing a child in an institution do you
remember that first photo that I showed
you before see that girl who's just
about to catch the ball her name is torn
she's a strong brave and fiercely
intelligent girl but in 2006 when I
first met her living in that corrupt and
abusive orphanage she had never been to
school
she was suffering terrible neglect
and she yearned desperately for the
warmth and love of her mother but this
is a photo of torn today with her family
her mother now has a secure job her
siblings are doing well in high school
and she is just about to finish her
nursing degree at University for Torn's
family
the Torrens family the cycle of poverty
has been broken the family based care
model that we have developed as CCT has
been so successful that it's now being
put forward by UNICEF Cambodia and the
Cambodian government as a national
solution to keep children in families
and one of the best
and one of the best ways that you can
help to solve this problem is by giving
these eight million children a voice and
become an advocate for family based care
if we work together to raise awareness
we can make sure the world knows that we
need to put an end to the unnecessary
institutionalization of vulnerable
children how do we achieve that by
redirecting our support and our
donations away from orphanages and
residential care institutions towards
organizations that are committed to
keeping children in families I believe
that we can make this happen in our
lifetime and as a result we will see
developing communities thrive and ensure
that vulnerable children everywhere have
what all children need and deserve a
family thank you
[Applause]